you
hi guys I'm magnet Gopal and you're
watching empowered thanks for joining me
today for those of you that don't know
me I've been a professional dance
instructor for a little over ten years
it's been an incredible experience where
I've learned so much with this video
blog series I plan to take my
experiences the questions I've been
asked and the lessons I've learned over
the years and share them in a way that I
hope helps us all think feel and be more
empowered on and off the dance floor one
of the first topics i'm going to cover
in the next series of videos will be
contract basics a large part of my work
is focused on travelling and teaching at
events naturally i'm very thankful to
the people that actually organize these
events without them i doubt our industry
would grow as quickly as it has however
i've occasionally run into issues with
some events whether it be last minute
cancellations failure to make payments
or other surprises and I'm sure I'm not
the only one while it's tempting to
blast organizers for such behavior I
realize that's not the most productive
path it won't help other artists in the
long run or our community in general
besides I believe organizers have good
intentions when they put together an
event but organizing and running
large-scale international events poses a
big challenge and a huge risk and
occasionally when things don't go as
planned as artists we need to be better
equipped to protect our professional
integrity and our livelihood the passion
for the dance itself isn't lost when we
do it for work as well but it's harder
to commit through passion alone if you
have to worry about whether organizers
will fulfill their side of the agreement
and when things are mismanaged in this
way it's hard not to become jaded
guarded protected and selfish a poorly
managed event affects everyone from
artists to organizers to their staff
volunteers or paid and the general
attendees it's a lose-lose situation
artists feel taken advantage of and
become guarded organizers feel like
they're dealing with unnecessary
attitude the staff is struggling to do
damage control all the attendees are now
in a negative environment born of broken
promises and poorly defined agreements
everyone starts to get focused on
themselves and it's in those moments
when we turn inward that we lose the
empathy
necessary for things to run smoothly
healthy relationships are the key to
success in our work and our personal
lives the best events share one common
characteristic a personal touch that
starts at the very beginning with the
organizers and spreads into good
relationships in energy all the way to
the end of the event and those good
relationships don't require years and
years of friendship to exist they just
require people to be mindful and
considerate in their interactions a
positively memorable event is so much
easier to achieve when everyone works
with each other and for each other I
hope the following videos will
facilitate that relationship between
aspiring artists and organizers and make
events as fun as possible the more
accountable and responsible we are the
more clearly we communicate and the more
we treat each other with respect and
consideration the sooner we can get back
to focusing on what's really important
pursuing our passions building
relationships and strengthening our
community I'm Magna copilot and thank
you for watching empowered I hope you
enjoy the following videos in the
contract basic series there are many
things to consider when running your own
business if you have any questions
regarding these videos would like the
sample contract advice or if you have
topics you'd like me to cover please
write to me you can contact me through
my website at magna Gopal calm don't
forget to subscribe to receive updates
on future videos